In this thesis, I explore improvements to rule-based Scrabble heuristics. Scrabble is a popular board game where players draw tiles and compete to create the most valuable words on a gridded board. Scrabble is a fascinating game from a strategy perspective, featuring a degree of randomness that hems the effectiveness of deterministic move planning while still being a deeply skill based contest. As the field tends more toward machine learning models that fine-tune their strategy with play, I seek to analyze experimentally if improvements to rule-based heuristics, which use a fixed algorithm to determine which moves to play, can still push the boundaries of computational Scrabble. Specifically, I investigate if improvements can be made to the open source Quackle player, a robust Scrabble C++ engine designed by an MIT Master's student and a Scrabble Master. I contend that challenging certain predetermined notions that govern Quackle's current rules around its Monte Carlo Tree Search (MCTS) can lead to a more formidable AI player. To do so required a rewrite of certain parts of the Quackle engine that made it more modularly extensible. In challenging these predeterminations, I uncover new heuristics that integrate more of the current state of the game into the algorithm's decision making. I also discover new parameter values for the move search breadth and depth that led to a more effective overall Scrabble engine. The style of research I applied to this particular engine can be replicated for similarly architected MCTS systems, which are common in games research, to increase their performance.
